README.md, before:

# Memory Light

The project is a simple and fun memory game inspired by the electronic game Simon, which allows improving memory skills.

## Table of contents
1. [UX](#ux)   
a.[Strategy plane](#strategy-plane)  
b.[Scope plane](#scope-plane)  
c.[Structure plane](#structure-plane)   
d.[Skeleton plane](#skeleton-plane)    
e.[Surface plane](#surface-plane) 

2. [Technologies used](#technologies-used)  

3. [Testing](#testing)

4. [Deployment](#deployment)

5. [Credits](#credits)

## UX <a name="ux"></a>

### Strategy plane <a name="strategy-plane"></a>
---
The goal of this memory game is to repeat and click the sequence of light that the game generated. After each round, one more light will be added to the sequence so it will become progressively longer and more complex which makes it harder to remember, the objective is to succeed the maximum of sequences as the user can.

#### The game is building for: 
* players for all age, for the kids, teenager, adult, senior 
* players who want to improve the memory skills 
* to develop concentration skills
* Ideal for playing during free time, while waiting the bus, during the break...

#### The goal & need of the player:
**Goal**:
* Enjoy the game
* Have a clear information of rule
* Succeed the sequence of each round as much as they can.
* Able to play in different device 

**Need**:
* to understand easily the game
* play with easy and good interaction
* Good and simple visual of the game 
* Able to contact the business 

#### The goal & need of the business:
**Goal**:
* Provide good UX design
* Build a simple and intuitive game suitable for players of all age
* Motivate the user to play again 
* Help the player to develop the memory skills


**Need**:
* Implement Javascript to set up the rule 
* Make simple and good visual to make the interaction easy

#### User Stories
##### As a first-time player
* I want to be able to play the game on different device
* I want to access to the instruction and have an easy understanding of the rule 
* I want a good and simple visual so it makes the game more enjoyable 
* I want to be able to turn off the sound if I am playing in quiet place
* I want to play the game with good interaction, no any slowness with quick loading  

##### As a  returning player: 
* I want to improve my memory skills
* I want to save my highscore in a stats board so that I can check my progress 
* I want to select different number of grid 
* I want to contact the business if I have any suggestion, feedback related to the game


### Scope plane <a name="scope-plane"></a>
---
#### Features

##### Existing features
* A navigation bar in all the pages with : **Play, Instruction, score, contact**.  
On the mobile device, the hamburger menu will be used with the toggling behavior. 
On the right of the navbar, the icon sound will allow to turn on or off the sound.
* The footer will be displayed in all the page with the copy right, the icon github which will direct to the github page of the project and the social media link.
* Each time the user succeed a round, one light will be added to the sequence to make the game more complex and difficult to memorize. 
* In the instruction page, it explains all the information of the game and the user can click on play button.
* In the contact page, the user can submit a form for any questions, feedback or suggestion.

##### Features Left to Implement
* For the moment, the game is a grid 3 X 3. Add different level with different grid to vary the difficulty :  2 X 2  4 X 4. 
* Add javascript in the contact form, due to the lack of time, I couldn't finish.
* Add stats board displaying the three highest score of the player
* Add option to use the timer so it will increase the difficulty of the game
* Add sounds effects


### Structure plane <a name="structure-plane"></a>
---
* When the player will open the game, the "play" page will be shown. It will display 3 differents pages on the same "play" section:  
    - The first page is the option to click on “play “and “instruction”.  
    - If the user click on play, it will show 3 grid options: 2 X 2, 3 X 3, 4 X 4.  
    - After choosing one of thoses options, it will show the page to allow the user to play the game. 

    If the user click on “instruction”, it will direct to the instruction page.

* If the player failed, it will show the page with the current score and the highscore.  
The player has the option to play again by clicling the button below the score.

* On the score page, it will show the four highest score of the player. 

* The instruction page provides all the information about the game, the rules. The player has an option to click on the button on the button to start the game after reading the instruction.

* On the contact page, the player has to fill out the name, email address and the message to add any question, suggestion or feedback.

### Skeleton plane <a name="skeleton-plane"></a>
---
#### Wireframe

[Home play page](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/home%20page%20play.pdf)

[After clicking play button](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/after%20clicking%20play.pdf)

[Start game](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/start%20game.pdf)

[Score after playing game ](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/score%20after%20playing%20game.pdf)

[Scores board](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/scores%20page.pdf)

[Instruction](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/instruction.pdf)

[Contact](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/contact.pdf)

### Surface plane <a name="surface-plane"></a>
---
#### Color Scheme
The main colors of the website are: 
* Black for the background and font color
* White for the button color and font color 
* Red when hover the button, social media icon and the color of the light sequence during the game

Those colors are chosen to make a contrast between color and make the game more visible, easier to play. 

#### Typography 
* **Play** in all the pages 
The reason od the choice is the form of this typography is straight and ideal for game app.

---
## Technologies Used <a name="technologies-used"></a>
---

### Languages
* HTML5
* CSS
* Javascript, jQuery

## Coding library and others technologies 
* [Jquery](https://jquery.com/)
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) version 4.3.1
* [Google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
* [Fontawesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
* [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
* [Github](https://github.com/)
* [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/)
* [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/)
* [Google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
* **Google Chrome Dev tools**
* [HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
* [CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
* [Grammarly](https://app.grammarly.com/)
* [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)


## Testing <a name="testing"></a>
---
### Devices tested

## Testing User Stories
1. I want to be able to play the game on different device  

    **Devices tested during the project**: 
* Desktop
* Moto G4 
* Galaxy S5
* Pixel 2
* Pixel 2Xl
* Iphone 5/SE 
* Iphone 6/7/8
* Iphone x
* Ipad 
* Ipad Pro
* Surface Duo

2. I want to access to the instruction and have an easy understanding of the rule
    * The playe can click on the first page the instruction button or on the navbar before playing.  
    The explanation is simple and clear. At the end of the instruction, the player can click on the button "play" to start the game. 

3. I want a good and simple visual so it makes the game more enjoyable
    The concept and the visual of the game is very simple.
## Deployment <a name="deployment"></a>
---
Gitpod was used to develop the project and deployed through Github Pages.   

The steps for the deployment of the project:

1. Login to [Github](https://github.com/)  
2. Click on the green and white icon on top-right and select "Your repositories"  
3. From the list of the repositories, select **memory-light**  
4. Click on **Settings**  on the right of the menu items  
5. Scroll down to the **GitHub Pages**  
6. Under source in the dropdown menu, select **Master**
7. On the right, select the folder **/(root)**  
8. Click **Save** and the page will automatically refresh  
9. Scroll back again to the **GitHub Pages** and click on the link to the deployed site

### To run the project locally  

1. Go to the repository [memory-light](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light)  
2. Click to the green button **Code** and select **Download ZIP**
3. Extract the file downloaded to run the project locally

## Credits <a name="credits"></a>

Commit message:

Deploy the website and add screenshot on the top of the readme file

README.md, after:

# Memory Light

![screenshot app all devices](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76018052/121008490-f719a780-c78a-11eb-98c1-8549c9245529.PNG)

The project is a simple and fun memory game inspired by the electronic game Simon, which allows improving memory skills.

View the website [here](https://yuyu78.github.io/memory-light/index.html).

## Table of contents
1. [UX](#ux)   
a.[Strategy plane](#strategy-plane)  
b.[Scope plane](#scope-plane)  
c.[Structure plane](#structure-plane)   
d.[Skeleton plane](#skeleton-plane)    
e.[Surface plane](#surface-plane) 

2. [Technologies used](#technologies-used)  

3. [Testing](#testing)

4. [Deployment](#deployment)

5. [Credits](#credits)

## UX <a name="ux"></a>

### Strategy plane <a name="strategy-plane"></a>
---
The goal of this memory game is to repeat and click the sequence of light that the game generated. After each round, one more light will be added to the sequence so it will become progressively longer and more complex which makes it harder to remember, the objective is to succeed the maximum of sequences as the user can.

#### The game is building for: 
* players for all age, for the kids, teenager, adult, senior 
* players who want to improve the memory skills 
* to develop concentration skills
* Ideal for playing during free time, while waiting the bus, during the break...

#### The goal & need of the player:
**Goal**:
* Enjoy the game
* Have a clear information of rule
* Succeed the sequence of each round as much as they can.
* Able to play in different device 

**Need**:
* to understand easily the game
* play with easy and good interaction
* Good and simple visual of the game 
* Able to contact the business 

#### The goal & need of the business:
**Goal**:
* Provide good UX design
* Build a simple and intuitive game suitable for players of all age
* Motivate the user to play again 
* Help the player to develop the memory skills


**Need**:
* Implement Javascript to set up the rule 
* Make simple and good visual to make the interaction easy

#### User Stories
##### As a first-time player
* I want to be able to play the game on different device
* I want to access to the instruction and have an easy understanding of the rule 
* I want a good and simple visual so it makes the game more enjoyable 
* I want to be able to turn off the sound if I am playing in quiet place
* I want to play the game with good interaction, no any slowness with quick loading  

##### As a  returning player: 
* I want to improve my memory skills
* I want to save my highscore in a stats board so that I can check my progress 
* I want to select different number of grid 
* I want to contact the business if I have any suggestion, feedback related to the game


### Scope plane <a name="scope-plane"></a>
---
#### Features

##### Existing features
* A navigation bar in all the pages with : **Play, Instruction, score, contact**.  
On the mobile device, the hamburger menu will be used with the toggling behavior. 
On the right of the navbar, the icon sound will allow to turn on or off the sound.
* The footer will be displayed in all the page with the copy right, the icon github which will direct to the github page of the project and the social media link.
* Each time the user succeed a round, one light will be added to the sequence to make the game more complex and difficult to memorize. 
* In the instruction page, it explains all the information of the game and the user can click on play button.
* In the contact page, the user can submit a form for any questions, feedback or suggestion.

##### Features Left to Implement
* For the moment, the game is a grid 3 X 3. Add different level with different grid to vary the difficulty :  2 X 2  4 X 4. 
* Add javascript in the contact form, due to the lack of time, I couldn't finish.
* Add stats board displaying the three highest score of the player
* Add option to use the timer so it will increase the difficulty of the game
* Add sounds effects


### Structure plane <a name="structure-plane"></a>
---
* When the player will open the game, the "play" page will be shown. It will display 3 differents pages on the same "play" section:  
    - The first page is the option to click on “play “and “instruction”.  
    - If the user click on play, it will show 3 grid options: 2 X 2, 3 X 3, 4 X 4.  
    - After choosing one of thoses options, it will show the page to allow the user to play the game. 

    If the user click on “instruction”, it will direct to the instruction page.

* If the player failed, it will show the page with the current score and the highscore.  
The player has the option to play again by clicling the button below the score.

* On the score page, it will show the four highest score of the player. 

* The instruction page provides all the information about the game, the rules. The player has an option to click on the button on the button to start the game after reading the instruction.

* On the contact page, the player has to fill out the name, email address and the message to add any question, suggestion or feedback.

### Skeleton plane <a name="skeleton-plane"></a>
---
#### Wireframe

[Home play page](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/home%20page%20play.pdf)

[After clicking play button](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/after%20clicking%20play.pdf)

[Start game](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/start%20game.pdf)

[Score after playing game ](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/score%20after%20playing%20game.pdf)

[Scores board](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/scores%20page.pdf)

[Instruction](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/instruction.pdf)

[Contact](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light/blob/master/wireframe/contact.pdf)

### Surface plane <a name="surface-plane"></a>
---
#### Color Scheme
The main colors of the website are: 
* Black for the background and font color
* White for the button color and font color 
* Red when hover the button, social media icon and the color of the light sequence during the game

Those colors are chosen to make a contrast between color and make the game more visible, easier to play. 

#### Typography 
* **Play** in all the pages 
The reason od the choice is the form of this typography is straight and ideal for game app.

---
## Technologies Used <a name="technologies-used"></a>
---

### Languages
* HTML5
* CSS
* Javascript, jQuery

## Coding library and others technologies 
* [Jquery](https://jquery.com/)
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) version 4.3.1
* [Google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
* [Fontawesome](https://fontawesome.com/)
* [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
* [Github](https://github.com/)
* [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/)
* [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/)
* [Google fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
* **Google Chrome Dev tools**
* [HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
* [CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
* [Grammarly](https://app.grammarly.com/)
* [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)


## Testing <a name="testing"></a>
---
### Devices tested

## Testing User Stories
1. I want to be able to play the game on different device  

    **Devices tested during the project**: 
* Desktop
* Moto G4 
* Galaxy S5
* Pixel 2
* Pixel 2Xl
* Iphone 5/SE 
* Iphone 6/7/8
* Iphone x
* Ipad 
* Ipad Pro
* Surface Duo

2. I want to access to the instruction and have an easy understanding of the rule
    * The playe can click on the first page the instruction button or on the navbar before playing.  
    The explanation is simple and clear. At the end of the instruction, the player can click on the button "play" to start the game. 

3. I want a good and simple visual so it makes the game more enjoyable
    The concept and the visual of the game is very simple.
## Deployment <a name="deployment"></a>
---
Gitpod was used to develop the project and deployed through Github Pages.   

The steps for the deployment of the project:

1. Login to [Github](https://github.com/)  
2. Click on the green and white icon on top-right and select "Your repositories"  
3. From the list of the repositories, select **memory-light**  
4. Click on **Settings**  on the right of the menu items  
5. Scroll down to the **GitHub Pages**  
6. On the **GitHub Pages** section, it will show a message "settings now has its own dedicated tab! Check it out here!", click on "Check it out here!" which will direct to the github pages
7. Under source in the dropdown menu, select **Master**
8. On the right, select the folder **/(root)**  
9. Click **Save** and it will appear a message "Your site is published at https://yuyu78.github.io/memory-light/"
9. Click on the link to the deployed site

### To run the project locally  

1. Go to the repository [memory-light](https://github.com/yuyu78/memory-light)  
2. Click to the green button **Code** and select **Download ZIP**
3. Extract the file downloaded to run the project locally

## Credits <a name="credits"></a>
